In the last video,
I briefly mentioned
the diagonals and
the off diagonals
in our cost matrix.
We will now define
these terms and use
them to compute
the overall costs.
Let's dive in. Previously you
set up the training data
into two specific batches.
Each batch containing no
duplicate questions within it.
You ran those batches
through one subnetwork each,
and that's produced a vector
outputs per question,
which has dimension
one by d model.
Where d model is the
embedding dimension
and is equal to the number
of columns in the matrix,
which is five, at
least in this example,
the v_1 vectors for a single
batch are stack together.
In this case, the batch
size is the number
of rows shown in this
matrix, which is four.
You can see a similar batch
of v_2 vectors as well.
The last step was to
combine the two branches
of the Siamese network
by calculating
the similarity between all
vector pair combinations
of the v_1 vectors
and v_2 vectors.
For this example with
a batch size of four,
that last step would
produce a matrix of
similarities that looks
something like this.
This matrix has some
important attributes.
The similarities along
the green diagonal
contains similarities for
the duplicate questions.
For a well-trained model,
these values should
be greater than
similarities for
the off-diagonals,
reflecting the fact that
the network produces
similar vector outputs
for duplicate questions.
The orange values in
the upper-right and
lower-left are
similarities for the
non-duplicates questions.
Now, this is where things
get really interesting.
You can use this off-diagonal
information to make
some modifications
to the loss function
and really improve your
model's performance.
To do so, I'm going to
make use of two concepts.
The first concept is
the mean negative,
which is just the
mean or average
of all the off-diagonal
values in each row.
Notice that
off-diagonal elements
can still be positive numbers.
When I say mean negative,
I'm referring to the mean of
the similarity for
negative examples,
not the mean of negative
numbers in a row.
For example, the mean
negative of the first row
is just the mean of
all the off-diagonal
values in that row.
In this case, negative 0.8, 0.3,
and negative 0.5,
excluding the value 0.9,
which is on the diagonal.
You can use the mean
negative to help speed
up training by modifying
the loss function,
which I'll show you soon.
The next concept is what's
called the closest negative.
As mentioned earlier,
because of the way you define
the triplet loss function,
you'll need to choose
so-called hard
triplets to train on.
What this means is
that for training,
you want to choose triplets
where the cosine similarity of
the negative example is close
to the similarity of
the positive example.
This forces your
model to learn what
differentiates
these examples and
ultimately drive those
similarity values
further apart through training.
To do this, you will
search each row
in your outputs matrix
for the closest negative,
which is to say,
the off-diagonal value
which is closest to,
but still less than the value
on the on-diagonal for that row.
In this first row, the value
on the diagonal is 0.9.
The closest
off-diagonal elements,
in this case, is 0.3.
What this means is that
this negative example
with a similarity of
0.3 has the most to
offer your model in terms
of learning opportunity.
To make use of
these new concepts,
recall that the triplet loss was
defined as the max
of the similarity of
A and N minus the similarity of
A and P plus the
margin Alpha and zero.
Also, recall that we referred
to the difference between
the two similarities with
the variable named diff.
Here, we're just writing
out the definition of diff.
In order to minimize the loss,
you want this diff
plus the margin Alpha
to be less than
or equal to zero.
I'll introduce loss one
to be the max of the mean
negative minus the similarity of
A and P plus Alpha and zero.
The change between
the formulas for
triplet loss and loss one is
the replacement of similarity of
A and N. With the mean negative,
this helps the model
converge faster
during training by
reducing noise.
It reduces noise by training
on just the average of
several observations
rather than training
the model on each of these
off-diagonal examples.
Why does taking the average of
several observations
usually reduce noise?
Well, we define noise to be
a small value that comes from
a distribution that is
centered around zero.
In other words, the average of
several noise values
is usually zero.
If we took the average
of several examples,
this has the effect
of canceling out
the individual noise
from those observations.
Then, last two will be the
max of the closest negative
minus the similarity of A
and P plus Alpha and zero.
The difference between
the formulas, this time,
is the replacement
of the cosine of
A and N with the
closest negative,
this helps create a slightly
larger penalty by diminishing
the effects of the otherwise
more negative similarity
of A and N that it replaces.
You can think of the closest
negative as finding
the negative example
that results in the
smallest difference
between the two
cosine similarities.
If you had that small
difference to Alpha,
then you are able to
generate the largest loss
among all of the other
examples in that row.
By focusing the training on
the examples that produce
higher loss values,
you make the model
update its weights more.
To learn from these more
difficult examples,
then you can define the full
loss as loss 1 plus loss 2.
You will use this new full loss
as an improved triplet
loss in the assignments.
The overall costs for your
Siamese network will be
the sum of these
individual losses
over the training sets.
In the next video,
you will use this cost
function in one-shot learning.
One-shot learning is a
very effective technique
that can save you a lot of
time when comparing
the authenticity of
checks or of any
other type of inputs.